First draft of factory docs. (#2417)
chainguard-dev/edu: content/chainguard/factory/overview.md

---
title: "Overview of The Chainguard Factory"
linktitle: "Chainguard Factory"
type: "article"
description: "Chainguard Factory Overview"
lead: "An introduction to the Chainguard Factory"
date: 2025-07-15T08:49:31+00:00
lastmod: 2025-07-15T08:49:31+00:00
draft: false
tags: ["Chainguard Containers", "Chainguard VMs"]
images: []
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "chainguard-factory"
weight: 005
toc: true
---

The major challenge faced by Chainguard is keeping all of our containers,

> libraries and VMs up-to-date with the newest versions. This article introduces

Author: reworked a bit

the Chainguard Factory, which represents all the engineering and automation
work required to build, publish and maintain the software that goes into our
products. 

![Diagram of a factory representing software production. Inputs include Open
Source Projects and Advisory Data from NVD. Outputs are Chainguard Containers,
Chainguard Libraries, and Chainguard VMs.](./factory.png)

It would be hard to overstate the sheer scale of Chainguard’s task of being the
secure source for open source. There are **thousands** of projects that we
constantly have to monitor, build, test and update. Some of these are
foundational projects like [LLVM](https://llvm.org/) and
[glibc](https://www.gnu.org/software/libc/). Others are applications central to
modern infrastructure like Redis and nginx. Still more are the small utilities

> and libraries that we use all the time and almost forget about like sed and jq.

Author: Not sure about this -- it's not code but the name of the program?

These projects are then built into our 1500 (at the time of writing)
containers, plus our VMs and libraries, each of which are updated daily.

> If you look inside the factory, you will find a complex build system running

Author: I'm closing for the moment. To get rid of "will" you'd need to rewrite the sentence.

parallel builds at high speed, constantly being updated and refined by
engineers supported by AI.

## The Pace of Updates

Open source moves at the speed of light and the factory keeps up through
vigilant and automated monitoring that leverages the GitHub API and the

> [Release Monitoring project](https://release-monitoring.org/). To give you an

Author: added

idea of how many updates happen in a short window of time, here is a screenshot
of 5 hours of our automation finding updates to projects.  

![Screenshot showing package updates committed by Factory automation](./factory.png)

Automation will open a PR when a new release is detected and create an

> appropriate patch. A suite of tests will then run to ensure the update works.

Author: I meant patch to the apko config. I will reword.

If a test fails, AI will analyze the logs and suggest updates. Human engineers
then step in to approve the update or fix any issues. Once approved, the
package will be built and become part of one of our package repositories. The
process combines fast, automated updates from AI, with reviews and guidance
from engineers to ensure all changes meet our high standards of quality and
security.

As every software engineer knows, not all updates are equal. Some are simple
updates to applications which build cleanly and are not used in other packages.
Some updates are a lot more complicated however, with other packages being
dependent on them, either at buildtime or runtime. Consider a bump to the Go
compiler. Not only do we need to update the Go package and release a new Go
compiler image, we also need to rebuild all the packages that are dependent on

> Go and their dependencies, some of which will likely fail due to changes caused

Author: I think will is correct here.

> Go and their dependencies, some of which will likely fail due to changes caused

Author: I rewrote this slightly.

by the update. Updates to core packages like the Go compiler, OpenSSL, or glibc
are major events that require considerable engineering effort to successfully
conclude. They are also happening all the time. 

Once an update passes through the package stage, we still need to update all
images that are dependent on it. For applications like Redis this will only be
a handful of images, but an update to OpenSSL or glibc will require practically
all our images to be rebuilt. After new versions of images are built, they are
tested, often as part of a Helm chart deployed to a Kubernetes cluster
(sometimes even a specially provisioned EKS cluster for images such as
[eks-distro-kube-proxy!](https://images.chainguard.dev/directory/image/eks-distro-kube-proxy/overview)).

On top of this, software is constantly going End-of-Life (EOL). When software

> is no longer supported upstream, we remove it from the Wolfi repository

Author: Will edit in line with https://edu.chainguard.dev/chainguard/chainguard-images/about/versions/#wolfi-packages-in-chainguard-containers

> is no longer supported upstream, we remove it from the Wolfi repository

Author: Updated in-line with https://edu.chainguard.dev/chainguard/chainguard-images/about/versions/#wolfi-packages-in-chainguard-containers

internal queue for further investigation and an advisory will be issued with
the status of `Under Investigation`. 

After an engineer investigates the issue, the most likely outcomes are: 
  - We determine the advisory to be a false positive and change the status to
    `Not Affected`. 
  - We determine it to be a real issue and take further action to resolve it.
    This could mean pulling in a patch or bumping a dependency in the project,
before rebuilding and updating the status to `Fixed`. 

See [How Chainguard Issues Security
Advisories](https://edu.chainguard.dev/chainguard/chainguard-images/staying-secure/security-advisories/how-chainguard-issues/)
for full information on the lifecycle of advisories.

## Identifying Malware and Malicious Updates

It is essential that the factory is secure and we do not inadvertently publish
malware. There have been multiple cases of supply chain attacks where reputable
open source projects have been subverted or taken over and used for the
distribution of malware, the recent XZ utils attack being a case-in-point.
Avoiding the propagation of such malware is a key goal of the factory and there

> are several steps that we take to ensure security. One of the most important is

Author: prefer this without the change.

> analyzing code for known malware, but we also automatically identify any

Author: sentence or paragraph?

> analyzing code for known malware, but we also automatically identify any

Author: I'm not sure which one you're referring to

> analyzing code for known malware, but we also automatically identify any

Author: I don't feel there is a long or confusing sentence here. I'm open to suggestions for improvement though! Closing for the moment

unexpected changes in the functionality of software from an update. For
example; an update would be flagged as suspicious if it makes new network
connections but there are no references to this in the project's changelog.

## Infrastructure and Build Security

> While we use GitHub extensively, our builds themselves run on Kubernetes

Author: I'd like to have a whole separate article on infra

clusters to provide the scaling and observability we require. As you can
imagine, there is a considerable cost associated with building at the pace
described above.

We take security in our build environment seriously and adhere to the
[SLSA](https://slsa.dev/) guidelines for ensuring build integrity and
provenance. The builds themselves follow [OpenSSF guidance for security
hardening via compiler flag
settings](https://www.chainguard.dev/unchained/enhanced-compiler-flags-for-building-chainguards-guarded-images).  

## On Automation, AI and Human Engineers

To keep the factory running at the pace it does, we leverage automation and AI

> to streamline operations. But the scale is such that there are constant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to streamline operations. The scale results in constant
```

exceptions and unexpected events that require domain specific knowledge to
resolve. For this reason, we rely on a large and experienced engineering team
with backgrounds in a wide range of technologies, from low-level kernel and VM
engineers to those who know their way around higher level ecosystems like Node,
Java and PHP.

## Conclusion

> The factory operates at an enormous scale. The sheer number of builds and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Chainguard Factory operates at an enormous scale. The sheer number of builds and
```

workflows that are happening every second is staggering. The factory is a
critical component in Chainguard and effectively what our customers are paying
for — the ability to turn open source projects into easily consumable

> Containers, VMs and Libraries quickly and securely.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
containers, VMs and libraries quickly and securely.  
```

Author: I think it's the blazers.
